The aim of this study is to qualitatively analyze Twitter data related to COVID-19 and group them into different themes or topics using word embeddings

For this study, 500 tweets were collected from different sources, including the Twitter mobile app (Android, IOS), Twitter web app, LinkedIn, and other third-party sources. All the data were collected on February 27, 2020. Besides the text, the data also contained information such as User_ID, Status_ID, number of retweets, and number of likes denoted as “favorite_count”. For the analysis, at first, the data were sorted based on popularity, i.e. tweets with the highest “favorite_count” and the top 100 most popular tweets were selected.

For the qualitative analysis, ideas from multiple sources were derived and numerous articles like “Framing COVID-19: How we conceptualize and discuss the pandemic on Twitter”, “Public discourse and sentiment during the COVID-19 pandemic: Using Latent Dirichlet Allocation for topic modeling on Twitter” and so on were explored. Eventually, 8 themes or topics for word embedding or coding of the tweets were deduced. These are: (i) General COVID-19 Discussion, (ii) Sarcasm/Homor, (iii) Outbreak Update, (iv) Emotion: Panic/Anxiety/Depression, (v) Politics/Political Commentary, (vi) Public Health Advice, (vii) Appreciation/Support and (viii) Lockdown.
  
For the quantitative analysis, a transformer-based pretrained model was designed to analyze the tweets and deduce themes based on the Twitter texts. For model selection, there were multiple suitable candidates. The most common ones are GPT-4 (Generative Pre-trained Transformer 4), BERT: Bidirectional Encoder Representations from Transformers, ELMO: Embeddings from Language Models, etc. According to Hugging Face, a leaderboard evaluates and ranks open-source models [4]. After some analysis, “all-MiniLM-L6-v2” was chosen as a sentence transformer model. These types of sentence-transformer models convert sentences into numerical vectors, translating them in a way that can be fed to machines for learning [5, 6]. “All-MiniLM-L6-V2” is a compact but powerful model trained to generate high-quality sentence embeddings, typically for semantic search, grouping sentences, or measuring similarities between two sentences. In this analysis, the model first takes in a list of sentences and converts them into a 2D array,
containing a 384-dimensional vector corresponding to each sentence in each array. Eventually, the model generated the following 10 topics or themes: (i) Coronavirus Outbreak Updates, (ii) Coronavirus Reporting and Spread, (iii) First Confirmed COVID-19 Cases, (iv) Global COVID Travel Bans, (v) Trump Coronavirus Response, (vi) Coronavirus High School Closures, (vii) COVID-19 Outbreak and Community Spread, (viii) Coronavirus Pandemic Health Control, (ix) COVID-19 Facts and Anti-Racism, (x) Coronavirus Face Mask Measures. The word clouds are given with the Python code.
